[WHOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome to the
House of Wellbeing.
You're listening to the
"Powerful Presentation
on Public Speaking
Hypnotherapy" audio.
In a moment, the
hypnosis will begin.
But before it
does, I'd just like
to remind you that the
following audio contains
powerful hypnotic
suggestions that
aim to help you reach a
deep level of relaxation.
So please be sure that wherever
you're listening to this audio,
you're in a safe and
comfortable place,
free from distractions, where
you can fully relax and let go.
Please don't listen to this
if you're driving or operating
machinery.
Should there be an emergency,
your subconscious mind
will alert you and you'll
easily come out of hypnosis.
But right now,
there's nothing at all
you need to do apart
from close your eyes,
relax, lie back, and let go.
And enjoy those peaceful
feelings and all the benefits
that come with it.
Make yourself as
comfortable as possible
and concentrate on
the sound of my voice.
And begin by drawing in
a long, slow, deep breath
in through your nose.
Hold the breath for a moment.
And now, slightly
open your mouth
and release all the
air from your body
in a long, low, deep sigh.
And relax, allowing your
lungs to naturally deflate
as your body sinks into
gentle relaxation now.
And you can release any tension.
Relax and let go as I
guide you through a journey
of relaxation, a journey that
you will find very beneficial
for your overall well-being.
You're going to start
this calming experience
by first relaxing your
whole body-mind system.
And it's true to say that the
simple act of relaxing the body
and mind has a positive knock-on
effect, because how you think
determines how you feel.
And how you feel influences
the world around you.
And how you choose
to think today
affects your decisions
from here on in.
So to make my
assurances your reality,
let's begin by
focusing your attention
at the very top of your head.
Tension often starts at
the scalp and the neck.
So mentally and physically,
allow all the muscles
around the top of your
head to relax now.
Letting all the
tension simply dissolve
as you start to tune into
your body-mind system.
Just let any tension you may
be holding to release now.
Allow your brain to relax,
the left and the right
lobes of the brain
just releasing.
Such a simple thought, yet so
profound and so significant.
Just letting go completely.
Drifting further
and further down.
Nobody wanting anything.
Nobody needing anything.
This is your time to relax.
Taking the relaxation
into the face
now, allowing all of your
facial muscles to feel loose.
Feel your brow relaxing,
your forehead smoothing out,
and the back of
your eyes relaxing.
Tiny muscles around
your eyes and eyelids,
down into your cheeks and
into your jaw muscles,
just releasing and letting go.
Allowing your
tongue to fall away
from the roof of your mouth.
And should you find you need
to swallow, just do that
now and drift down and
down, deeper and deeper
into blissful relaxation.
The more you physically
relax, the more
you can mentally relax.
And when you can
mentally relax, you
can think much more clearly.
And when you think more clearly,
your life becomes clearer,
you make better decisions,
and you're much more
in control of your days.
So noticing now how
your neck feels.
Relaxing all the little muscles,
letting go of the strain,
letting go of the tension.
Allow that tension that you
may be holding in your shoulder
to go now.
Feel those shoulders,
both of them,
sinking into the
frame of your body.
Feel your neck lengthen
as you do this.
Feel or imagine all your
cares and worries just
rolling off your shoulders now
as you take the relaxation down
now into the tops of your
arms, letting any tension you
may be holding just drain away.
And as your awareness flows
down through your upper arms,
into your elbows, all the
muscles in your forearms
relax, right down to your
wrists and into your hands.
And way down into the very tips
of your fingers and thumbs.
Your arms are feeling so heavy.
Your body's so comfortable.
Nothing whatsoever
to do but just
relax and enjoy this feeling
of total release now.
As you let go of all the
tension in those muscles,
you may experience them becoming
calmer and gently releasing.
And just tune into the
feeling of simply letting go.
As you become aware
of your breathing,
notice that you are now
breathing steadily and slowly,
rhythmically.
And with each exhale,
you feel yourself just
relaxing even more
deeply, allowing
any tension in the chest area
now to simply drain away.
Letting go completely
and totally.
Bring awareness into
your stomach now,
and let all your
stomach muscles relax.
And as you do, I
want you to imagine
a pool of sunlight passing
down from the top of your head
down through your face, your
throat, and into your stomach.
Visualize this healing
energy passing down
through your throat and
chest and into your stomach.
So see and feel the sunlight
swirling and rotating.
And as the light glows, it
moves and soothes and heals.
And you release and
relax and drift down.
And further down.
And in your imagination,
you send the sunlight out
now to every nerve cell,
bone, muscle, fiber,
and system of the body.
See it flowing through
the bloodstream
and leave the light there.
It knows what to do as
you take the relaxation
round into your back muscles.
And from your back muscles,
it relaxes those muscles
either the side of the spine.
Releasing, relaxing,
and just letting go now.
Deeper and deeper now.
As you relax your
waist and the muscles
of your lower stomach, and
down into the pelvic area, all
the way down through
the large thigh
muscles, down through
your knees, your shins
and your calves, just to
allow those areas of the body
to relax and let go.
You're so relaxed.
So heavy, so comfortable.
And now, tune into that
comfortable feeling
as you think on down to
your ankles, into your feet,
right down to the very
tips of your toes.
All the muscles of your body
now so beautifully relaxed
and you feel very heavy
and very comfortable.
And you're feeling centered and
relaxed and fully in control.
If there are any
areas of your body
that still feel
tight or tense, you
find that you can relax them
simply by giving yourself
permission to do so.
And you can now go even deeper
as I count down from 8 to 0.
And with every number, you
feel yourself drifting further
into blissful relaxation.
So 8, 7, 6, 5, deeper
now, 4, 3, 2, 1, and 0.
Deeply relaxed, letting go of
all the cares and worries, all
the tension and pressure
and stresses and strains.
Let them all ease from your
body and ease from your mind.
And allow yourself to drift down
into a deeper, more blissful
state of creative relaxation.
For a while now, you've
been feeling some anxiety
and worry when you've been
asked to present or deliver
a public speech.
Perhaps you previously
tripped over words
or felt like the
palms of your hands
were sweating or a
little bit shaky.
And that adrenaline
is perfectly normal.
But from now on in, you want to
take control of those feelings.
It's almost as if someone
from deep, deep inside of you
has now flipped a
switch, reset a dial,
changed a thermostat
of some kind,
easily allowing you to
become and remain cool, calm,
and collected in your thoughts
and physically pre, post,
and during presenting or
public speaking moments.
From now on in, presenting
in public speaking
makes you feel calm,
persuasive, determined,
in control, confident,
and convincing.
You are able to convey all
your points articulately
and comfortably and with ease.
Your heart rate, body, and
skin are all calm, soothing,
rhythmic, and balanced.
You release and forgive
all past blockages.
Uncomfortable memories
of previous presentations
or public speaking moments
are forgiven now and released.
You're now moving into a
brighter and more brilliant
future, easily able to
express yourself articulately
with grace, poise, skill,
and ease, whilst easily
generating interest for
all who hear words and gain
from your knowledge, especially
when you have to give a speech,
whether online or in person.
From now on in, you
feel calm and relaxed.
You give powerful
public speaking
performances that
captivate your audience.
Each person is
there to hear you.
They're there to
be your supporter
and willing you to do well.
They want to hear your opinion,
your views, and the information
you pass on.
They're not necessarily
looking at you.
They're listening to your
words, interested in what
you have to say.
Your old feelings of
anxiety and nervousness
are now replaced with
excitement and enthusiasm
as you realize what a
great opportunity this is
for you and your career.
I'd like you now to
imagine that you're
about to give a
presentation or speech.
You feel relaxed
and calm, and you've
prepared well for this day.
You've rehearsed and you know
what you're going to say.
You know your
subject matter well.
You're an expert in
this field, and that's
why you've been asked
to talk in front
of a group of people about it.
And you're excited to
share that information.
You've been through
your presentation
repeatedly in your mind.
You have learned
it off by heart,
because you have vocalized
it over and over again
without notes, so your
script is now firmly embedded
in your subconscious brain.
You feel confident,
excited, and ready.
As you speak, you're perfectly
poised, self-possessed,
and completely free
in your expression.
You feel at ease, and
you present your ideas
in a clear, brief,
and direct way.
Your mind is clear
and your wit is quick.
Your lips are flexible
and your mouth is moist.
Your breathing is deep
and from the diaphragm.
Your hands are poised and calm.
Your gestures flow
spontaneously and freely.
You speak easily, always giving
a clear picture of the thoughts
you want to convey.
You're secure and
confident as you speak,
and you feel relaxed and calm.
You're totally confident
and perfectly at ease.
And as you begin to talk, you
have the undivided attention
of your audience.
And it makes you feel good.
You speak freely, fluidly,
with a full release
of your skill and your talent.
As you talk to the audience
in a natural, easy way,
you're aware of just how
powerful your voice sounds.
You're talking clearly
and making yourself heard,
but your words seem
to flow as you impart
the information in the way
you've prepared and rehearsed
speaking with clarity
and calm confidence.
Any nerves you had beforehand,
you turn into excitement.
You say to yourself,
I'm excited.
I can do this.
Perhaps you jump up
and down to release
some of that adrenaline.
Let it out.
Turn that nervous feeling
into excitement now.
Use that adrenaline
to your advantage.
Allow yourself to be so
excited to tell your audience
everything that you have to say.
Your speech is coming
to a close now,
so you invite your
audience to ask questions.
You welcome these questions
as an even greater opportunity
to demonstrate how you think
and feel about your subject.
See yourself now, and you're
at the end of the presentation.
And you feel a great sense
of pride and achievement
and satisfaction.
You've done a great job.
You congratulate yourself,
knowing that next time you
do a presentation
or give a speech,
you will do so with even more
ease, with more confidence,
and with great success.
You are a great presenter.
You are confident and in control
at all times when presenting.
If you feel those
nerves arising,
you turn that into excitement.
Jump up and down before
giving your speech.
Use that adrenaline.
Burn it off and use
it when presenting.
The excitement
will show when you
deliver your speech or talk.
You are confident and in control
at all times when presenting.
These hypnotic
suggestions are now
embedded in your
subconscious mind
and they'll become
more and more powerful
as the days and weeks go by.
And in a moment, I'm going
to count up from 1 to 5
to awaken you.
And at the count of 5, you'll
be wide awake, fully refreshed,
alert, and feeling
fantastic, bringing back
with you all the
wonderful new feelings.
Coming back now with
1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
Eyes open when you're ready.